README.md, before:

# 🏷 Open Source Data Annotation & Labeling Tools

[![maintained-by-zenml](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3348134/173032050-ad923313-f2ce-4583-b27a-afcaa8b355e2.png)](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml)

At [ZenML](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml) we believe that annotation and labelling workflows are a core part of
the machine learning lifecycle. As an open-source tool, we wanted to highlight
and recognize the variety of tools that are available to help your workflows
become more data-centric. We had three core criteria to decide whether a
particular tool could make it into the list:

- The tool has an open-source licence.
- The tool is actively maintained.
- The tool is functional and fit for purpose.

We welcome contributions to this list, so if you know of a tool that
we've missed or if you've built one yourself, please do create a PR!

🔥 **Do you use these tools or do you want to add one to your MLOps stack?** At
ZenML, we are looking for design partnerships and collaboration to develop the
integrations and workflows around using annotation within the MLOps lifecycle.
If you'd like to learn more, please [join our
Slack](https://zenml.io/slack-invite/) and leave us a message!

## Contents

- [Multi Modal / Multi Domain](#multi-modal-multi-domain)
- [Text](#text)
- [Images](#images)
- [Audio](#audio)
- [Video](#video)
- [Time Series](#time-series)
- [Other](#other)

# Multi Modal / Multi Domain

| Name | Description | License |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- |
| [Acharya](https://github.com/astutic/Acharya) | A Data Centric MLOps tool for your Named Entity Recognition projects ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/astutic/Acharya?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | ? |
| [Classifai](https://github.com/CertifaiAI/classifai) | A comprehensive open-source data annotation platform ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/CertifaiAI/classifai?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |
| [Computer Vision Annotation Tool (CVAT)](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/cvat) | A free, online, interactive video and image annotation tool for computer vision ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/openvinotoolkit/cvat?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [Data Annotator for Machine Learning (DAML)](https://github.com/vmware/data-annotator-for-machine-learning) | An application that helps machine learning teams facilitating the creation and management of annotations ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/vmware/data-annotator-for-machine-learning?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |
| [DataGym](https://github.com/datagym-ai/datagym-core) | Open source annotation and labeling tool for image and video assets ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/datagym-ai/datagym-core?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [Diffgram](https://github.com/diffgram/diffgram) | Training Data (Data Labeling, Annotation, Workflow) for all Data Types (Image, Video, 3D, Text, Geo, Audio, more) at scale ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/diffgram/diffgram?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | ELv2 |
| [Hover](https://github.com/phurwicz/hover) | Explore and label on a map of raw data ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/phurwicz/hover?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [Label Studio](https://github.com/heartexlabs/label-studio) | A multi-type data labeling and annotation tool with standardized output format ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/heartexlabs/label-studio?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |
| [Pigeon](https://github.com/agermanidis/pigeon) | A simple widget that lets you quickly annotate a dataset of unlabeled examples from the comfort of your Jupyter notebook ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/agermanidis/pigeon?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |
| [Tator](https://github.com/cvisionai/tator) | Video analytics web platform ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/cvisionai/tator?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | AGPL-3 |
| [TornadoAi](https://github.com/slrbl/human-in-the-loop-machine-learning-tool-tornado) | A human-in-the-loop machine learning framework ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/slrbl/human-in-the-loop-machine-learning-tool-tornado?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | AGPL-3 |
| [Universal Data Tool](https://github.com/UniversalDataTool/universal-data-tool) | A web/desktop app for editing and annotating images, text, audio, documents and to view and edit any data defined in the extensible .udt.json and .udt.csv standard ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/UniversalDataTool/universal-data-tool?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [VGG Image Annotator (VIA)](https://gitlab.com/vgg/via) | A standalone image annotator application packaged as a single HTML file (< 400 KB) that runs on most modern web browsers | BSD-2 |
| [VIAME](https://github.com/VIAME/VIAME) | Video and Image Analytics for Multiple Environments ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/VIAME/VIAME?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Custom |

# Text

| Name | Description | License |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- |
| [CoreNLP](https://github.com/stanfordnlp/CoreNLP) | A Java suite of core NLP tools ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/stanfordnlp/CoreNLP?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | GPL-3 |
| [DataQA](https://github.com/dataqa/dataqa) | Labelling platform for text using weak supervision ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/dataqa/dataqa?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | GPL-3 |
| [doccano](https://github.com/doccano/doccano) | An open source text annotation tool supporting text classification, sequence labeling and sequence to sequence tasks ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/doccano/doccano?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [FLAT - FoLiA Linguistic Annotation Tool](https://github.com/proycon/flat) | A web-based linguistic annotation environment based around the FoLiA format, an XML-based format for linguistic annotation ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/proycon/flat?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | GPL-3 |
| [INCEpTION](https://github.com/inception-project/inception) | A semantic annotation platform offering intelligent annotation assistance and knowledge management ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/inception-project/inception?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |
| [Rubrix](https://github.com/recognai/rubrix) | A production-ready Python framework for exploring, annotating, and managing data in NLP projects ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/recognai/rubrix?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |
| [SMART](https://github.com/RTIInternational/SMART) | A tool for building labeled training datasets for supervised machine learning tasks in NLP ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/RTIInternational/SMART?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [SpaCy annotator](https://github.com/ieriii/spacy-annotator) | Spacy NER annotator using ipywidgets ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ieriii/spacy-annotator?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | N/A |
| [TALEN](https://github.com/CogComp/talen) | A way to do annotations for NER ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/CogComp/talen?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Custom |
| [YEDDA](https://github.com/jiesutd/YEDDA) | A lightweight collaborative text span annotation tool ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/jiesutd/YEDDA?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |

# Images

| Name | Description | License |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- |
| [Annotorious](https://github.com/recogito/annotorious) | A JavaScript library for image annotation ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/recogito/annotorious?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | BSD-3 |
| [CATMAID](https://github.com/catmaid/CATMAID) | The Collaborative Annotation Toolkit for Massive Amounts of Image Data ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/catmaid/CATMAID?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | GPL-3 |
| [COCO Annotator](https://github.com/jsbroks/coco-annotator) | A web-based image segmentation tool for object detection, localization, and keypoints ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/jsbroks/coco-annotator?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [DeepLabel](https://github.com/jveitchmichaelis/deeplabel) | A cross-platform desktop image annotation tool for machine learning ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/jveitchmichaelis/deeplabel?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [ilastik](https://github.com/ilastik/ilastik) | Segment, classify, track and count your cells or other experimental data ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ilastik/ilastik?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Custom |
| [imglab](https://github.com/NaturalIntelligence/imglab) | A web based tool to label images for objects that can be used to train dlib or other object detectors ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/NaturalIntelligence/imglab?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [KNOSSOS](https://github.com/knossos-project/knossos) | A software tool for the visualization and annotation of 3D image data and was developed for the rapid reconstruction of neural morphology and connectivity ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/knossos-project/knossos?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | GPL-2 |
| [labelme](https://github.com/wkentaro/labelme) | Image Polygonal Annotation with Python (polygon, rectangle, circle, line, point and image-level flag annotation) ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/wkentaro/labelme?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Custom |
| [LabelImg](https://github.com/tzutalin/labelImg) | A graphical image annotation tool and label object bounding boxes in images ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/tzutalin/labelImg?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [LOST](https://github.com/l3p-cv/lost) | A flexible web-based framework for semi-automatic image annotation ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/l3p-cv/lost?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [Make Sense](https://github.com/SkalskiP/make-sense) | A free-to-use online tool for labeling photos ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/SkalskiP/make-sense?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | GPL-3 |
| [OpenLabeler](https://github.com/kinhong/OpenLabeler) | An open source desktop application for annotating objects for AI appplications ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/kinhong/OpenLabeler?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |
| [Pixano](https://github.com/pixano/pixano-app) | A web-based smart-annotation tool for computer vision applications ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/pixano/pixano-app?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | CeCILL-C |
| [Scalabel](https://github.com/scalabel/scalabel) | A web-based visual data annotation tool, supporting both 2D and 3D data labeling ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/scalabel/scalabel?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |
| [webKnossos](https://github.com/scalableminds/webknossos) | A fully cloud- and browser-based 3D annotation tool for distributed large-scale data analysis in light- and electron-microscopy based Connectomics ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/scalableminds/webknossos?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | AGPL-3 |

# Video

| Name | Description | License |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- |
| [DIVE](https://github.com/Kitware/dive) | Media annotation and analysis tools for web and desktop ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Kitware/dive?color=orange&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |

# Audio

| Name | Description | License |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- |
| [aubio](https://aubio.org) | A library for audio and music analysis ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/aubio/aubio?color=pink&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | GPL-3 |
| [audino](https://github.com/midas-research/audino) | Open source audio annotation tool ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/midas-research/audino?color=pink&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [Praat](https://github.com/praat/praat) | Annotation tool for phonetics analysis ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/praat/praat?color=pink&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | GPL-3 |
| [Peaks.js](https://github.com/bbc/peaks.js) | JavaScript UI component for interacting with audio waveforms ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/bbc/peaks.js?color=pink&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | LGPL-3 |
| [Wavesurfer.js](https://github.com/katspaugh/wavesurfer.js) | Navigable waveform built on Web Audio and Canvas ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/katspaugh/wavesurfer.js?color=pink&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | BSD-3 |

# Time Series

| Name | Description | License |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- |
| [sktime](https://www.sktime.org/en/stable/index.html) | A framework for machine learning with time series ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/alan-turing-institute/sktime?color=blue&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | BSD-3 |

# Other

| Name | Description | License |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- |
| [OpenCRAVAT](https://github.com/KarchinLab/open-cravat) | A modular annotation tool for genomic variants ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/KarchinLab/open-cravat?color=green&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [Personal Cancer Genome Reporter (PCGR)](https://github.com/sigven/pcgr) | A stand-alone software package for translation of individual tumor genomes for precision cancer medicine ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/sigven/pcgr?color=green&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |

# Acknowledgements

Thanks to the creators of
[these](https://github.com/jsbroks/awesome-dataset-tools)
[other](https://github.com/doccano/awesome-annotation-tools)
[repositories](https://github.com/taivop/awesome-data-annotation) (and [this
one](https://github.com/heartexlabs/awesome-data-labeling)!) for getting us
going down the path of creating our own. I used these efforts to get started in
my survey of the space before adding, updating and pruning as per the
open-source and other criteria specified above.

Commit message:

Add LabelFlow to the image tools list

README.md, after:

# 🏷 Open Source Data Annotation & Labeling Tools

[![maintained-by-zenml](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3348134/173032050-ad923313-f2ce-4583-b27a-afcaa8b355e2.png)](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml)

At [ZenML](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml) we believe that annotation and labelling workflows are a core part of
the machine learning lifecycle. As an open-source tool, we wanted to highlight
and recognize the variety of tools that are available to help your workflows
become more data-centric. We had three core criteria to decide whether a
particular tool could make it into the list:

- The tool has an open-source licence.
- The tool is actively maintained.
- The tool is functional and fit for purpose.

We welcome contributions to this list, so if you know of a tool that
we've missed or if you've built one yourself, please do create a PR!

🔥 **Do you use these tools or do you want to add one to your MLOps stack?** At
ZenML, we are looking for design partnerships and collaboration to develop the
integrations and workflows around using annotation within the MLOps lifecycle.
If you'd like to learn more, please [join our
Slack](https://zenml.io/slack-invite/) and leave us a message!

## Contents

- [Multi Modal / Multi Domain](#multi-modal-multi-domain)
- [Text](#text)
- [Images](#images)
- [Audio](#audio)
- [Video](#video)
- [Time Series](#time-series)
- [Other](#other)

# Multi Modal / Multi Domain

| Name | Description | License |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- |
| [Acharya](https://github.com/astutic/Acharya) | A Data Centric MLOps tool for your Named Entity Recognition projects ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/astutic/Acharya?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | ? |
| [Classifai](https://github.com/CertifaiAI/classifai) | A comprehensive open-source data annotation platform ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/CertifaiAI/classifai?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |
| [Computer Vision Annotation Tool (CVAT)](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/cvat) | A free, online, interactive video and image annotation tool for computer vision ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/openvinotoolkit/cvat?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [Data Annotator for Machine Learning (DAML)](https://github.com/vmware/data-annotator-for-machine-learning) | An application that helps machine learning teams facilitating the creation and management of annotations ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/vmware/data-annotator-for-machine-learning?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |
| [DataGym](https://github.com/datagym-ai/datagym-core) | Open source annotation and labeling tool for image and video assets ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/datagym-ai/datagym-core?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [Diffgram](https://github.com/diffgram/diffgram) | Training Data (Data Labeling, Annotation, Workflow) for all Data Types (Image, Video, 3D, Text, Geo, Audio, more) at scale ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/diffgram/diffgram?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | ELv2 |
| [Hover](https://github.com/phurwicz/hover) | Explore and label on a map of raw data ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/phurwicz/hover?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [Label Studio](https://github.com/heartexlabs/label-studio) | A multi-type data labeling and annotation tool with standardized output format ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/heartexlabs/label-studio?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |
| [Pigeon](https://github.com/agermanidis/pigeon) | A simple widget that lets you quickly annotate a dataset of unlabeled examples from the comfort of your Jupyter notebook ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/agermanidis/pigeon?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |
| [Tator](https://github.com/cvisionai/tator) | Video analytics web platform ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/cvisionai/tator?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | AGPL-3 |
| [TornadoAi](https://github.com/slrbl/human-in-the-loop-machine-learning-tool-tornado) | A human-in-the-loop machine learning framework ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/slrbl/human-in-the-loop-machine-learning-tool-tornado?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | AGPL-3 |
| [Universal Data Tool](https://github.com/UniversalDataTool/universal-data-tool) | A web/desktop app for editing and annotating images, text, audio, documents and to view and edit any data defined in the extensible .udt.json and .udt.csv standard ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/UniversalDataTool/universal-data-tool?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [VGG Image Annotator (VIA)](https://gitlab.com/vgg/via) | A standalone image annotator application packaged as a single HTML file (< 400 KB) that runs on most modern web browsers | BSD-2 |
| [VIAME](https://github.com/VIAME/VIAME) | Video and Image Analytics for Multiple Environments ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/VIAME/VIAME?color=black&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Custom |

# Text

| Name | Description | License |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- |
| [CoreNLP](https://github.com/stanfordnlp/CoreNLP) | A Java suite of core NLP tools ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/stanfordnlp/CoreNLP?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | GPL-3 |
| [DataQA](https://github.com/dataqa/dataqa) | Labelling platform for text using weak supervision ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/dataqa/dataqa?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | GPL-3 |
| [doccano](https://github.com/doccano/doccano) | An open source text annotation tool supporting text classification, sequence labeling and sequence to sequence tasks ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/doccano/doccano?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [FLAT - FoLiA Linguistic Annotation Tool](https://github.com/proycon/flat) | A web-based linguistic annotation environment based around the FoLiA format, an XML-based format for linguistic annotation ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/proycon/flat?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | GPL-3 |
| [INCEpTION](https://github.com/inception-project/inception) | A semantic annotation platform offering intelligent annotation assistance and knowledge management ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/inception-project/inception?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |
| [Rubrix](https://github.com/recognai/rubrix) | A production-ready Python framework for exploring, annotating, and managing data in NLP projects ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/recognai/rubrix?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |
| [SMART](https://github.com/RTIInternational/SMART) | A tool for building labeled training datasets for supervised machine learning tasks in NLP ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/RTIInternational/SMART?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [SpaCy annotator](https://github.com/ieriii/spacy-annotator) | Spacy NER annotator using ipywidgets ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ieriii/spacy-annotator?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | N/A |
| [TALEN](https://github.com/CogComp/talen) | A way to do annotations for NER ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/CogComp/talen?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Custom |
| [YEDDA](https://github.com/jiesutd/YEDDA) | A lightweight collaborative text span annotation tool ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/jiesutd/YEDDA?color=white&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |

# Images

| Name | Description | License |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- |
| [Annotorious](https://github.com/recogito/annotorious) | A JavaScript library for image annotation ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/recogito/annotorious?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | BSD-3 |
| [CATMAID](https://github.com/catmaid/CATMAID) | The Collaborative Annotation Toolkit for Massive Amounts of Image Data ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/catmaid/CATMAID?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | GPL-3 |
| [COCO Annotator](https://github.com/jsbroks/coco-annotator) | A web-based image segmentation tool for object detection, localization, and keypoints ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/jsbroks/coco-annotator?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [DeepLabel](https://github.com/jveitchmichaelis/deeplabel) | A cross-platform desktop image annotation tool for machine learning ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/jveitchmichaelis/deeplabel?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [ilastik](https://github.com/ilastik/ilastik) | Segment, classify, track and count your cells or other experimental data ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ilastik/ilastik?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Custom |
| [imglab](https://github.com/NaturalIntelligence/imglab) | A web based tool to label images for objects that can be used to train dlib or other object detectors ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/NaturalIntelligence/imglab?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [KNOSSOS](https://github.com/knossos-project/knossos) | A software tool for the visualization and annotation of 3D image data and was developed for the rapid reconstruction of neural morphology and connectivity ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/knossos-project/knossos?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | GPL-2 |
| [LabelFlow](https://github.com/labelflow/labelflow) | An open platform for image labelling ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/labelflow/labelflow?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Custom |
| [labelme](https://github.com/wkentaro/labelme) | Image Polygonal Annotation with Python (polygon, rectangle, circle, line, point and image-level flag annotation) ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/wkentaro/labelme?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Custom |
| [LabelImg](https://github.com/tzutalin/labelImg) | A graphical image annotation tool and label object bounding boxes in images ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/tzutalin/labelImg?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [LOST](https://github.com/l3p-cv/lost) | A flexible web-based framework for semi-automatic image annotation ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/l3p-cv/lost?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [Make Sense](https://github.com/SkalskiP/make-sense) | A free-to-use online tool for labeling photos ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/SkalskiP/make-sense?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | GPL-3 |
| [OpenLabeler](https://github.com/kinhong/OpenLabeler) | An open source desktop application for annotating objects for AI appplications ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/kinhong/OpenLabeler?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |
| [Pixano](https://github.com/pixano/pixano-app) | A web-based smart-annotation tool for computer vision applications ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/pixano/pixano-app?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | CeCILL-C |
| [Scalabel](https://github.com/scalabel/scalabel) | A web-based visual data annotation tool, supporting both 2D and 3D data labeling ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/scalabel/scalabel?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |
| [webKnossos](https://github.com/scalableminds/webknossos) | A fully cloud- and browser-based 3D annotation tool for distributed large-scale data analysis in light- and electron-microscopy based Connectomics ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/scalableminds/webknossos?color=purple&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | AGPL-3 |

# Video

| Name | Description | License |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- |
| [DIVE](https://github.com/Kitware/dive) | Media annotation and analysis tools for web and desktop ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Kitware/dive?color=orange&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | Apache-2 |

# Audio

| Name | Description | License |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- |
| [aubio](https://aubio.org) | A library for audio and music analysis ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/aubio/aubio?color=pink&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | GPL-3 |
| [audino](https://github.com/midas-research/audino) | Open source audio annotation tool ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/midas-research/audino?color=pink&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [Praat](https://github.com/praat/praat) | Annotation tool for phonetics analysis ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/praat/praat?color=pink&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | GPL-3 |
| [Peaks.js](https://github.com/bbc/peaks.js) | JavaScript UI component for interacting with audio waveforms ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/bbc/peaks.js?color=pink&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | LGPL-3 |
| [Wavesurfer.js](https://github.com/katspaugh/wavesurfer.js) | Navigable waveform built on Web Audio and Canvas ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/katspaugh/wavesurfer.js?color=pink&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | BSD-3 |

# Time Series

| Name | Description | License |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- |
| [sktime](https://www.sktime.org/en/stable/index.html) | A framework for machine learning with time series ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/alan-turing-institute/sktime?color=blue&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | BSD-3 |

# Other

| Name | Description | License |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- |
| [OpenCRAVAT](https://github.com/KarchinLab/open-cravat) | A modular annotation tool for genomic variants ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/KarchinLab/open-cravat?color=green&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |
| [Personal Cancer Genome Reporter (PCGR)](https://github.com/sigven/pcgr) | A stand-alone software package for translation of individual tumor genomes for precision cancer medicine ![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/sigven/pcgr?color=green&label=%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F&style=plastic) | MIT |

# Acknowledgements

Thanks to the creators of
[these](https://github.com/jsbroks/awesome-dataset-tools)
[other](https://github.com/doccano/awesome-annotation-tools)
[repositories](https://github.com/taivop/awesome-data-annotation) (and [this
one](https://github.com/heartexlabs/awesome-data-labeling)!) for getting us
going down the path of creating our own. I used these efforts to get started in
my survey of the space before adding, updating and pruning as per the
open-source and other criteria specified above.
